you're empowered. This is Crypto Talk
and Blockchain Walk number six of the
day.
>> Yay. Excited to be on here.
>> Alicia, thank you so much for taking the
time to talk with me.
>> Thank you so much.
>> I think um we started off our little uh
little chat by pointing out the fact
that you're a Bitcoin L2 here in the
belly of the beast in the lines.
>> Indeed. Indeed.
>> This is your second ETH Denver though.
>> It's actually my fifth ETH Denver. Yeah.
So I'm Yeah. So basically I did work in
on the crypto side of things but I've
been building this Bitcoin L2 for about
three years now. Okay. So the last few
times I've been representing Bitcoin and
actually two years ago if you remember
there's a quite a big BTC Denver
contingent. Right.
>> Um noticeably absent this year so that's
why I'm here to represent.
>> Do you think that that's just like a
state of the market?
>> Exactly. I think it's a state of the
market as a state of the price of
Bitcoin and everything else. So
unfortunately that's that seems to be
the trend that I'm seeing this this
year. I had a spicy take,
>> okay,
>> with why BTC L2s were such a dominant
narrative in 2023 and 2024
>> because we had Gary Gendler
>> as the SEC and Bitcoin is a commodity
chain.
>> It is, I would argue, one of two chains
that cannot be stopped by a nation state
>> with the other being Ethereum.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. And because of this, we needed to
have blockchains that could be the
substrate for other sorts of activity,
which is why we had this massive boom in
Bitcoin L2 narrative. And now we're
starting to see bit Bitcoin L2s come to
fruition.
>> Yes.
>> So where am I right or wrong on that
assumption?
>> I think you're right. I think the I
think the rise in Bitcoin L2s is
actually there's two factors here.
>> Okay. one is um there's actually there
were technical constraints that
prohibited Bitcoin L2s from existing
until a few years ago. So notably the
tap routt upgrade that happened to
Bitcoin and you know 2021 that's what
enabled a lot of this to occur. So I
think there were technical constraints
that prevented a lot of these scaling
solutions. And I think too like the rise
of ordinals, right? Bitcoin base layer
transaction fees exploded and you needed
scaling solutions because it was just
like way too expensive to transact on
Bitcoin base layer. Um and I think like
what Bitcoin L2's really unlocked is
this broader idea of hey Bitcoin is like
the largest crypto asset in the world.
Why don't we do anything with it? Yeah.
you know, and it's not only about like
the loss of productive capital, it's
also like the loss of talent. It's like
the loss of innovation, right? A lot of
that has flowed into Ethereum and other
ecosystems. And I think it's important
to bring that back to the OG crypto,
which is Bitcoin.
>> So, are we a Udy Warheimr fan?
>> Sorry.
>> Are are you an Udy fan?
>> Of course. We love the tapered wizards
in this household. Yes.
>> Shout out to Udy. Um, okay. So like when
one takes a look at the Bitcoin
ecosystem on crypto Twitter, you run
into like this very kind of homogeneous
message that a lot of people don't like
activity that's not just like sent my
Bitcoin, received my Bitcoin.
>> Yeah.
>> How do you deal with this? Do you find
yourself like running up against this in
reality? Is this a narrative that is
like a headwind for the development that
you do? Yeah, actually it's so
fascinating. Um I call them the the loud
minority of Bitcoiners, right? Um and I
think they're waiting in importance,
which I think is going to be a net
positive for Bitcoin as a whole, right?
So the loud minority of Bitcoiners who
are, you know, oifiers don't think
Bitcoin should be changed even a little
bit. Don't believe you should do
anything with your Bitcoin. Um I
actually think they're holding Bitcoin
back. And now I think what's super
interesting is like we're seeing a
cultural change within Bitcoin, right?
And people are seeing that you can do
just even basic financial primitives
like earning yield boring against your
Bitcoin. The ability to enable that is a
massive opportunity. And again, the
contrast to the loud minority is a
silent majority of Bitcoiners who are
basically just
>> people like maybe your parents or my
parents were maybe DCA into Bitcoin.
Like if you offer them the ability to
earn yield on their Bitcoin or borrow
against their Bitcoin and use it as
collateral that intuitively appeals to
them, right? So,
>> I think that cultural shift is
occurring. I think crypto Twitter is
waning in importance. Um, and I think
it's going to be really cool bringing
actually the next million users of
Bitcoin on chain.
>> Yeah, I 100% agree. And I think like one
of the things that a lot of people,
particularly the the loud minority that
you're talking about, don't really want
to say out loud, but the security
problem is going to be it's going to be
a problem. Security is going to be a
problem. Every four years the subsidy is
cut in half. Absolutely. We're moving
towards a world where if we want to have
a secure blockchain layer secured by
miners,
>> we're going to have to provide them with
fees. And where do fees get derived
from? Onchain activity.
>> Thank you so much for saying that. This
is like the number one thing I see. And
actually, you know what I've been saying
all at at ETH Denver, that's like, hey,
we're all down bad because Bitcoin is
down. We're all down bad. You can
pretend that Ethereum lives in a vacuum,
but it does not, right? I agree
>> that you are in intricately correlated
with each other. So if you care about
your bags of Ethereum, you need to care
about Bitcoin's price. And if you care
about Bitcoin's price, you need to care
about Bitcoin adoption. Because those
are the two things, the two things that
drive Bitcoin price are speculation and
adoption, right? And right now that
people are not speculating it on it as
much, it becomes increasingly important
to transact with it, to use it to drive
like minor rewards of course, right? So,
um it's the number one thing I've been
talking about all week and I feel like
people are finally getting it that it's
important to care about Bitcoin um at an
Ethereum conference.
>> But like let's not like sell yourself as
like a Bitcoin maxi. The chain that
you're building uses EBM.
>> Yes.
>> So, what is the crazy overlap here? Why
is a Bitcoin L2 using an EVM?
>> So, it's interesting. We don't even tell
our users that it's an EVM because I
think we think of EVM as just like a
software and execution layer. Right.
>> Right. I I and it is the best one.
Right. And I I spoke about this on the
panel, but you can um
>> you can argue about the security of EVM
versus other virtual machines or other
execution environments, but I think it's
still by far the most scale one with the
most devs, the most tooling, the most
ecosystem
>> 100%.
>> So how can you argue with the lindiness
of the EVM, right? And so that is how we
think of it. It's like it is the most
scale virtual machine, the most scale
software environment for any crypto
application. Um, and so that's how we
think about it. But we want to bring it
to Bitcoin and Bitcoiners and we are
already doing so.
>> So what's like a cool way that I can
deploy my dormant Bitcoin to actually
earn me yield or something like that?
>> That's awesome. So there's multiple
things you can do immediately. So you
can bridge your Bitcoin to Botanics and
stake passively into something called
STBTC which is stake Bitcoin and it's
basically the yield on that comes
entirely from activity on the network in
Bitcoin. Okay. So not affiliated with
tokens or points or anything just pure
Bitcoin in Bitcoin out.
>> Um that's something you can do
immediately as as soon as after this
conversation. And then if you want to
take it up to the next level what you
can do is you can borrow against your
Bitcoin um and sorry lend your Bitcoin
and borrow stable coins. So you can
borrow USDC against it on Doomite which
is a lending protocol that's live on
Botanics and then you can even put it
into Blend which is a vault that we just
went live with last week and earn about
10% yield on that USDC.
>> Awesome. So I guess like wrapping up in
last question without getting into super
wonky technical uh answers. How does how
do I use my Bitcoin on Bitcoin L1 to
earn rewards on an EVM based Bitcoin L2?
Is it real Bitcoin? Is it wrapped
Bitcoin? How do I move my assets between
the two networks?
>> Perfect. So, I think like the way
basically you go to our website and we
have a bridge that's live on our website
which we built ourselves of course uh
from the ground up and you send your it
generates a deposit address in like a
Bitcoin deposit address. Copy that
deposit address, paste it in any place
in the world. It can be a Coinbase
account, could be your Ledger, it could
be your Kaza or like whatever Bitcoin
wallet you have. And you can send
Bitcoin from anywhere in the world and
it will show up in your linked EVM
wallet and then from there it's off to
the races.
>> Awesome. Yeah. Where can I send people
to go start earning on their Bitcoin
right now?
>> They should all go to botanicsabs.com
and uh check us out on Twitter. So our X
is Botanics.
>> Awesome. Thanks Alicia.
>> Thanks so much.
>> Cheers.
>> Great being on here.